REPORT: (this is will be heavily edited later in the final draft. The language is quite loose.)

Airline Classes:

Our first instict was that the classes would have a disparity between reported satisfaction, and we fully expected to see business class have a significantly higher count of satisfied customers over the economy and economy plus classes. Our insticts were correct: when we plotted a seaborn barplot of the count of satisfied and disatissfied/neutral customers for each class, the business class was not only the class with the highest count of satisfied customers, but it was also the only class with the majority of customers satisfied. Our analysis on classes did not end here, however. When we plotted the age distribution of customers across each class using a seaborn histogram, we found that the means of the distributions appeared to be different. Applying the ANOVA test to the differnt age distributions of each class, we found that there is most definitely a significant difference of the means betwen the different airline classes (p-value of 1.05e-228). Following this result, we ran post-hoc analysis using a scipy Tukey Test, which indeed determined that all of the age distributions had mean ages that signficantly different from eachother.

 From both the class satisfaction barplot and the age distribution histogram results, we infered the following:
  
  – Airline class strongly influences the satisfcation of customers. When running classification algorithms, we have a strong predictor of satisfaction.
  – The mean customer age of each airline class is significantly different; since airline class and age are related, and class and satisfaction are related, we can say that the two features are associated, and age is a somewhat reliable predictor of satisfaction. 

Flight Distances:

We also seeked a relationship between continuous features. Two features that stood out to us were the 'Flight Distance' and 'Arrival Delay in Minutes' feature; we were expecting that on longer flights, the room for estimation error by the airline grew larger. However, this was not the case. Before plotting the features against eachother, we removed all records that had a departure delay greater than 0 minutes. This is done to prevent comparing arrival delays with flight distances where the departure delay is likely influencing arrival delay the most. Finally plotting 'Flight Distance' against 'Arrival Delay in Minutes', we find no evidence of strong linear correlation, with a correlation coefficient of r = 0.0268. Perhaps we were not looking deep enough – we decided to break down the data further by dividing data into satisfied and disatisfied/neutral groups. Again, we found no evidence of linear correlation (r = 0.0422 and 0.059). There does not appear to be any direct linear relationship between arrival delay and flight distances within these contexts. 

As a follow up, we were curious whether or not the Flight Distance, a predetermined statistic for each customer, would influence the results of satisfaction among customers. What we were surprised to find was that the mean flight distance for satisfied customers happened to be over 600 kilometers greater than non satisfied customers. Could this be a sign that airlines are aware that longer flights are more taxing on travellers, and so they provide a higher standard of service than on shorter flights?

heatmapping:

Instead of checking each pair of features for any signs of correlation manually, we can do it all at once using a correlation matrix, enabled by data preprocessing that handles categorical features. Using the seaborn library once more, we were able to discover more interesting relationships in our dataset. What immediately stood out is a moderate positive correlation between Flight Distance and customers flying in business class, and a moderate negative correlation between Flight Distance and customers flying in economy class. Knowing what we learned using barplots to plot satisfaction against airline class, now our discovery that satisfied customers have a longer average flight distance is much more clear. If business class flyers are more likely to be on longer flights, and economy class flyers are less likely to be on longer flights, then the proportion of satisfied customers with longer flight times will likely be much higher among satisfied customers, since satisfied customers are typically business class flyers. Very similar results are evident in the type of travel; customers flying for business are morely likely to travel with business class. We wondered if we plotted the satisfaction of business vs personal travellers, whether we would find similar results to the plot of airline class vs satisfaction, and we did. Business travelers, of which business class flyers make up a bigger proprotion than Personal travelers, report higher satisfaction levels than economy flyers, and the majority of business travelers report satisfaction.

The heatmap also identifies a consistent correlation disparity between the different elements of a flight experience and airline classes as well. Business class typically positively correlates with a greater customer satisfaction in each service, and economy class typically negatively correlates. Moreover, the different categories of in-flight experience influence eachother as well. For example, a higher satisfaction in flight cleanliness positively coorelates moderately with satisfaction in the food a drink category. The heatmap data is, for the most part, very valuable in the context of the project as a whole – it provides us the with the opportunity to predict in what direction we should be looking in terms of the data. 




 